Add expand data corpus instructions (#8807)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/optimizing-benchmarks/expand-data-corpus.md

---
layout: default

> title: Expand data corpus

Reviewer: Should this be "Expanding a data corpus"?

nav_order: 20
parent: Optimizing benchmarks
grand_parent: User guide
---

> # Expanding the data corpus of a workload

Reviewer: "Expanding a workload data corpus"?

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for an OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running the `http_logs` workload against a large OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for an OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This can be helpful when running the `http_logs` workload against a large OpenSearch cluster.
```

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Becnhmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.
```

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer 2: "an OpenSearch Benchmark workload"

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for an OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.
```

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for an OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for an OpenSearch Benchmark workload. This is helpful when running the `http_logs` workload against a large OpenSearch cluster.
```

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Becnhmark workload. This can help assist in running the `https_logs` Benchmark with a larger scale, for instance, with clusters containing multiple data nodes.

Reviewer 3: Nit: We can simplify the last sentence: 
> This is helpful when running time-series workloads like `http_logs` against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.

> This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Becnhmark workload. This can help assist in running the `https_logs` Benchmark with a larger scale, for instance, with clusters containing multiple data nodes.

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for a OpenSearch Becnhmark workload. This is helpful when running time-series workloads like http_logs against a large scale OpenSearch cluster.
```

> Only the `http_logs` workload is currently supported.

Reviewer 2: This tutorial shows you how to use the [`expand-data-corpus.py`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark/blob/main/scripts/expand-data-corpus.py) script to increase the size of the data corpus for an OpenSearch Benchmark workload.  Currently, this capability is available only for the `http_logs` workload.  This feature is helpful when running the workload at scale against a large OpenSearch cluster or a Serverless implementation.

Author: I think calling out the lack of support for this workload in a `warning` callout will help make the limitation more noticeable. I did adjust the intro on line 11 slightly.

> Only the `http_logs` workload is currently supported.

Author: ```suggestion
This script only works with the `http_logs` workload.
```

{: .warning}

## Prerequisites

> To use this tutorial, make sure you fulfill the following prerequsities:

Reviewer 2: prerequisites

> To use this tutorial, make sure you fulfill the following prerequsities:

Author: ```suggestion
To use this tutorial, make sure you fulfill the following prerequisites:
```

> 1. Python 3.x or greater installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You have installed Python 3.x or later.
```

> 2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus already in your load generation host where benchmark is running.

Author: ```suggestion
2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus is already in your load generation host where OpenSearch Benchmark is running.
```

> 2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus is already in your load generation host where OpenSearch Benchmark is running.

Reviewer: Something like "is already stored on the load generation host running OpenSearch Benchmark"?

> 2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus is already in your load generation host where OpenSearch Benchmark is running.

Author: ```suggestion
2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus is already stored on the load generation host running OpenSearch Benchmark.
```

> 2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus already in your load generation host where benchmark is running.

Reviewer 2: corpus is already available in your load generation host where OSB is running.

> 2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus already downloaded in your cluster.

Reviewer 3: I think this needs to be data corpus already downloaded in your load generation host (where OSB is running).

> 2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus already downloaded in your cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
2. The `http_logs` workload data corpus already in your load generation host where benchmark is running.
```

## Understanding the script

> The `expand-data-corpus.py` script is designed to generate a larger data corpus by duplicating and modifying existing documents from the `http_logs` workload. It primarily adjusts the timestamp field while keeping other fields intact. It also generates an offset file, which enables OpenSearch Benchmark to start up faster.

Reviewer 2: from the `http-logs` workload corpus.
It also pre-generates an offset file..

> The `expand-data-corpus.py` script is designed to generate a larger data corpus by duplicating and modifying existing documents from the `http_logs` workload. It primarily adjusts the timestamp field while keeping other fields intact. It also generates an offset file, which enables OpenSearch Benchmark to start up faster.

Author: ```suggestion
The `expand-data-corpus.py` script is designed to generate a larger data corpus by duplicating and modifying existing documents from the `http_logs` workload corpus. It primarily adjusts the timestamp field while keeping other fields intact. It also generates an offset file, which enables OpenSearch Benchmark to start up faster.
```

## Using `expand-data-corpus.py`

To use `expand-data-corpus.py`, use the following syntax:

```bash
./expand-data-corpus.py [options]
```

> You can adjust the script with the following options.

Reviewer 2: The script has several options; two of the commonly-used one are the follows:

> You can adjust the script with the following options.

Author: ```suggestion
The script has several options for customization. The following are the most commonly-used customization options:
```

> The script has several options for customization. The following are the most commonly-used options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script provides several customization options. The following are the most commonly used options:
```

> The script has several options for customization. The following are the most commonly-used customization options:

Reviewer 2: most commonly-used options:

> The script has several options for customization. The following are the most commonly-used customization options:

Author: ```suggestion
The script has several options for customization. The following are the most commonly-used options:
```

- `--corpus-size`: The desired corpus size in GB
- `--output-file-suffix`: The suffix for the output file name.

## Example

> 

Reviewer: Line 42: Can we include the noun after "example"? Example what?

Author: ## Example corpus generation?

Reviewer: I mean the line below: The following example script generates a 100 GB corpus?

> This example generates a 100 GB corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example generates a 100 GB corpus:
```

```bash
./expand-data-corpus.py --corpus-size 100 --output-file-suffix 100gb
```

> The script will start generating documents. For a 100gb corpus, it can take up to 30 minutes to generate the full corpus.

Author: ```suggestion
The script will start generating documents. For a 100 GB corpus, it can take up to 30 minutes to generate the full corpus.
```

> You can generate multiple corpora by running the script multiple times with different output suffixes.

Reviewer 2: When you do this, all the generated corpora are used by OSB during ingestion, one at a time, in a sequential fashion.

> You can generate multiple corpora by running the script multiple times with different output suffixes.

Author: ```suggestion
You can generate multiple corpora by running the script multiple times with different output suffixes. All corpora generated by the script is used by OpenSearch Benchmark during injection, one at a time, sequentially. 
```

> You can generate multiple corpora by running the script multiple times with different output suffixes. All corpora generated by the script is used by OpenSearch Benchmark during injection, one at a time, sequentially. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate multiple corpora by running the script multiple times with different output suffixes. All corpora generated by the script are used by OpenSearch Benchmark during injection, one at a time, sequentially. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 50: Are both "one at a time" and "sequentially" necessary, or could we just say something like "are used by OpenSearch Benchmark sequentially during injection"?

## Verifying the documents

After the script completes, check the following locations for new files:

- In the OSB data directory for `http_logs`:
   - `documents-100gb.json`: The generated corpus.

>    - `documents-100gb.json.offset`: The offset file.

Reviewer 2: associated offset file

>    - `documents-100gb.json.offset`: The offset file.

Author: ```suggestion
   - `documents-100gb.json.offset`: The associated offset file.
```

> - In the OSB data directory for `http_logs`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the OpenSearch Benchmark data directory for `http_logs`:
```

>    - `documents-100gb.json`: The generated corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `documents-100gb.json`: The generated corpus
```

> 1. In the `http_logs` workload directory:

Author: ```suggestion
- In the `http_logs` workload directory:
```

>    - `documents-100gb.json.offset`: The associated offset file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `documents-100gb.json.offset`: The associated offset file
```

>    - `gen-docs-100gb.json`: The metadata for the generated corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `gen-docs-100gb.json`: The metadata for the generated corpus
```

>    - `gen-idx-100gb.json`: The index specification for the generated corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `gen-idx-100gb.json`: The index specification for the generated corpus
```

## Using the corpus in a test

To use the newly generated corpus in an OpenSearch Benchmark test, use the following syntax:

```bash
opensearch-benchmark execute-test --workload http_logs --workload-params=generated_corpus:t [other_options]
```

> The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus.

Reviewer 2: If you have additional workload parameters you wish to specify, append them to the `--workload-params` option, separated by commas.

> The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus.

Author: ```suggestion
The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters can be appended to the previous command using commas.
```

## Expert-level settings

> Be cautious when using following expert options as they may affect the corpus structure:

Reviewer 2: You can run the script with the `--help` option to obtain a full list of supported options.  Be cautious when using ...

> Be cautious when using following expert options as they may affect the corpus structure:

Author: ```suggestion
Use `--help` to see all of the script's supported options.  Be cautious when using the following expert options as they may affect the corpus structure:
```

> The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters can be appended to the previous command using commas.

Author: ```suggestion
The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters  in the `--workload-params` option can be appended to the previous command using commas.
```

> The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters  in the `--workload-params` option can be appended to the previous command using commas.

Author: ```suggestion
The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters in the `--workload-params` option can be appended to the previous command using commas.
```

> The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OSB to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters in the `--workload-params` option can be appended to the previous command using commas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `generated_corpus:t` parameter tells OpenSearch Benchmark to use the expanded corpus. Any additional workload parameters in the `--workload-params` option can be appended to the previous command using commas.
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 72: To what does "the previous command" refer? Can we clarify a little?

Author: The command on line 79. I revised your suggestion, let me know what you think.

> Use `--help` to see all of the script's supported options.  Be cautious when using the following expert options as they may affect the corpus structure:

Author: ```suggestion
Use `--help` to see all of the script's supported options. Be cautious when using the following expert options as they may affect the corpus structure:
```

> Use `--help` to see all of the script's supported options. Be cautious when using the following expert options as they may affect the corpus structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `--help` to see all of the script's supported options. Be cautious when using the following expert-level settings because they may affect the corpus structure:
```

> - `-f`: Specifies the input file to use as a base for generating new documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-f`: Specifies the input file to use as a base for generating new documents
```

> - `-n`: Sets the number of documents to generate instead of the corpus size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-n`: Sets the number of documents to generate instead of the corpus size
```

> - `-i`: Defines the interval between consecutive timestamps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-i`: Defines the interval between consecutive timestamps
```

> - `-t`: Sets the starting timestamp for the generated documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-t`: Sets the starting timestamp for the generated documents
```

> - `-b`: Defines the number of documents per batch when writing to the offset file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-b`: Defines the number of documents per batch when writing to the offset file
```
